In this and the next several videos you are going to learn all about polynomials and working with polynomials
in Python.
I am super excited about these videos, not only because I'm super excited about all the videos in this
course, but because polynomials are really great.
First of all the word polynomial is a lot of fun to say :D
But also polynomials are really important in
math.
They are important in applied mathematics are important in engineering applications and they're also
important in more abstract math. Polynomials have lots of great qualities.
They're all over calculus.
And anyway I could go on and on.
So what is a polynomial?
What are these amazing amazing things??
A polynomial is an expression that has a form that looks something like this, where you have some numbers
that are called coefficients multiplying some variable and here it's called x raised to higher powers.
So a zero a one a two all the way up to a n.
These are just individual numbers.
Maybe this is six or maybe this is three point two and the X is some variable and you can see that the
variable gets increased to higher powers.
Now, the number of total powers,
so the highest power of x or whatever the variable is, is called the Order of the polynomial or it's
also called the degree in fact I think in Python It is called the degree not the order.
So this would be an N degree polynomial.
Okay.
So here you see a couple of examples, two examples.
So here the coefficients are three and five and five-sixths and twelve point four.
And you can see that the degree or the order of this polynomial is three.
Here you see another example.
Now polynomials don't necessarily need to have every single power, that you can see here.
So there is no a zero here.
There's no individual number not attached to the X.
And there's also no x squared in here.
Still, this is a third degree polynomial or a degree three polynomial.
So that's what a polynomial is.
What you are going to be doing in this video is learning about adding polynomials to each other.
So this is one polynomial; this is the other polynomial that I showed on the previous side.
And now, how do you add these things together?
Well, it's pretty straightforward.
What you have to do is look for all of the "like" terms.
So you look for the terms that have the same degree or the same power on the X or whatever the variable
is.
So for example minus 5 x and plus 2 x.
So these can be combined into minus three x and then over here we have twelve point four X cubed and
just regular x cube these are both positive.
So you add these together that becomes thirteen point four X cube.
So the end result of the addition of these two polynomials is this number. In this video we are going
to be using the sympy module as well as the display and math function so I'm already importing
all of these things here.
OK.
So we are going to need a symbolic variable.
How about we use x.
I've already explained before that I happen to be fond of the letter X.
Okay.
So let's come up with a first polynomial.
So how about two times X cubed plus x squared minus X. That is our first polynomial.
And then the second polynomial will be X cubed minus X to the fourth minus four times X squared plus
squared.
Okay.
So let's start by printing.
How about just p1, polynomial one.
All right.
So this seems fine, but it's not...
it doesn't look really nice.
You know by this point in the course that I like to print these out to make them look nice.
So display math.
Now we need to convert this into latex.
All right.
This looks pretty good.
And now let's also have a look quick look at p2, polynomial two.
So there you go.
Now notice that sympy is actually reordering the polynomials to put the terms with the largest coefficients
or sorry I mean the highest powers, to be in the first position.
So here I wrote minus X to the fourth in the second term and sympy just rearranged it to have the highest
power coming first and then decreasing powers as we go along.
So now let's see what happens when I write P1 plus P2.
So notice that these two are... actually you know it's even a better idea.
I'm going to write this out.
I'm going to write out the whole thing.
So let's say math.
Percent x plus percent S equals percent s.
Okay.
And now I'm going to replace this with a bunch of latex codes.
There's going to be sympyt dot latex for p 1 and then sympy dot latex for p2. And then the addition of
them oops.
Right.
No comma over here.
All right.
This was a mistake.
I hope you caught that before I did.
That should be p2 not just the number two.
All right so here it's kind of hard to see what was polynomial one and polynomial two.
So actually let me put some parentheses around here.
These parentheses of course are not mathematically necessary.
They're not necessary for code.
They're only here for ease of visual interpretation of the equation.
So here's polynomial 1 polynomial 2 and there are some.
Now notice that there is only one term here that is to the fourth power.
And there are two terms that contain X cubed and that's x cubed on its own.
And then two X cubes. So you add those together and you get three X cubed.
And then we can also subtract them, so I'm going to say minus over here.
And of course we need a minus over here.
And now we get a different result. In particular,
this is now just X cubed because this is 2x cubed. This... you always have to be mindful with
these minus signs here.
So this is plus X cubed but then there's a minus sign that applies to the X cubed term here.
So this is one way to create polynomials in the sympy module.
I want to show you another way because this is going to turn out to be pretty useful for some applications
in particular for the exercise at the end of this video.
So I'm going to use sym dot poly and then the input into this poly function will be the polynomial.
So for example how about two times X cubed plus x squared minus X.
All right.
So let's see what this thing is.
First of all, I'm going to type type to see what the class is.
So the class of this variable is a poly poly poly... there's poly's all over the place.
So this is a polynomial.
And let's see what this looks like.
So you can see this is the function poly and here's the function and the main variable is X and the
domain is Z which basically just means that the coefficients or these numbers here are all integers.
So you don't have to worry about the domain for now.
All right.
So what can we do with a poly class?
So one thing we can do is substitute for x.
Now previously you learned how to do this, that was like subs... but now with the poly
class, it works a little bit differently. We can say poly or sorry p1 dot eval and let's say zeros.
That's a pretty simple one to compute in our head.
So essentially we're substituting for X, the input here, which is zero.
So of course when x equals zero we get zero as a result.
Another method that we can apply here is called P1 -- the polynominal variable -- coeffs without the
zero.
So this returns a list and the numbers in this list are 2 1 minus 1.
So what could this possibly mean.
Yes I'm sure you guessed it correctly.
These are the coefficients on the polynomial, so here is 2.
Now you don't actually see the one in here but it's here implicitly one and here it's a minus one because
I'm subtracting x.
Now notice that the order of the coefficients is not the same as the order that they are presented in
here.
So for example if I would say
X squared.
So if I put the x term first and then the x term I say the X squared term first and then the x term
and then the X cubed term.
Now the coefficients are the same and that's because, as I mentioned up here, sympy internally is going
to reorder the polynomial so that the largest coefficient terms or the highest order terms are first
The exercise for this video is to first implement these polynomials, these three, as a list in Python.
So this is the first.
The second and the third.
So implement these as a python list and then you after loop through and for each of them you have to
calculate the degree of the polynomial.
And if the degree is even then you sum the coefficients.
And if the degree is odd then you count the number of coefficients.
So for example the degree of this polynomial is 2.
So we would sum the coefficients the coefficients are 1 and 2.
So it would be 3 and here in this polynomial the degree is odd because the largest term is X to the
power of three.
So the degree is odd.
And then we just count the number of coefficient.
So in that case the answer would be two although the coefficients are minus 1 and plus 4.
All right.
Now I haven't actually told you how to compute the degree of a polynomial in Python but I think you
can figure it out by knowing that the term for this thing the highest power is called the degree.
All right.
So good luck.
Now is your chance to pause the video work through this assignment.
And of course I'm going to now switch to Python so you can watch me work my way through this all right.
Let's see.
So I'm going to start working in this cell.
So the first thing that I'm going to do is create a list of polynomials. Let's call this polys. Remember,
a list has these square brackets like this.
Okay.
So I'm going to make sure these are all of class poly, so that's sym dot poly and then that first one
was two times X plus X squared.
And then we had some dot poly poly the next one was minus X cubed plus four times x and then the third
one was in the poly that was X to the power of five minus X to the power of four plus one over four
times x plus four.
Now this term just to be clear this term was actually X over for like this.
However, multiplication takes priority over division.
Remember the order of operations was PEMPAS, so multiplication comes before division.
So in fact writing it this way is the same as saying 1 over four times x although now that I see it
written out I think this is a little bit clearer.
Okay.
So, I ran this, we didn't get any errors so that's a good sign.
Now what we need to do is loop through these.
I'm going to say for poli in polys and then what do we want to do.
So we need to extract the degree of the polynomial and determine whether it is even or odd.
So it turns out that getting the degree is pretty straightforward. In fact I think I'll show it to
you up here.
So here was P1 and so the degree we know by just looking at this thing that it's a degree 3 polynomial
so I'm going to say print P1 dot degree and that tells us that it's three.
Okay.
So then we have a poly poly that degree.
Now how can we tell whether this is an even number or an odd number.
Now you might remember from a couple of videos ago I showed you how to use the modulus or the remainder
after division to determine whether a number is odd or even.
So that was the function in the numpy toolbox called mod and then divide by two and we test whether
that is equal to zero.
So that was a method that I showed previously and this works.
This is a great solution and there's nothing wrong with it.
However I haven't actually imported numpy and I am too lazy to import numpy right now, so therefore
I'm going to show you a different approach which is equivalent to this.
Actually let me leave this up here and then I will show you this so I can also say poly dot degree and
then use a percent sign two equals zero.
So these two lines are equivalent.
The percent sign is also computing the modulus or returning the modulus after division by 2.
Okay.
So if this is the case then that means that this number is even.
And then when the number is even we say the degree is even.
And the coefficients sum to, and then percent G.
And then we want the sum of the polynomial coefficients.
So this code is not yet finished, however I want to run and already to see if we've made any mistakes
or if we got the right answer.
Okay, so uh okay this is this was not intended :(
Sometimes I make these mistakes on purpose just to make sure you are paying attention.
This was a careless mistake on my part.
I didn't even put the if statement in here.
All right.
So this looks good.
This says the degrees is even and the coefficients some 2 3.
So that part is kind of accurate except we don't know which polynomial this was corresponding to.
So we can see by looking at it that only one of them actually is even.
So that part makes sense.
But I would like to put the actual polynomial in here.
So let's say the degree of.
And then I'm going to say percent
s.
And here I want to replace this with the expression.
So I can do it this way, I can say poly.
However, that's returning this really long thing.
And actually I only want this.
So the method to extract just this part, just the actual polynomial, is dot as expr.
So essentially I'm converting this into an expression.
So this polynomial object as an expression.
All right.
So the degree of X squared plus two X is even.
And the coefficients some two three.
Great.
So that is part of the solution.
And then the other part is we have to say else,
so if that is this is not the case,
if the degree is odd, then we want to print the degree of percent S is odd.
And there are some number of coefficients.
All right.
So then let's see we want again poly dot as expr, and then the second one is we just want to count
the number of coefficients.
So then we can say len for length and then poly dot coeffs. Great! ...oops not so great.
I'm missing a parenthesis on coeffs. All right.
So this is starting to look good.
I'm going to say that this is now finished in the interest of time. But of course if you would like one
thing you could do to make this look a little bit nicer without really changing that solution would
be to get all of this to work in latex so that you get a nice printing of the polynomial so it looks
a little bit more like this.
So in this video I gave you a reminder of what polynomials were and I introduced you to working with
polynomials in Python and extracting information out of Python and adding and subtracting multiple polynomials
in the next several videos we will continue on our exploration of working with polynomials in Python
and I look forward to seeing you then.